# Development

### | [Overview](../README.md) | Development |

## Framework

### Next.js and React

This project was built using Next.js, which is basically React with some helpful features added on top. Tailwind CSS is used for styling, and most of the code is in TypeScript.

### Project Layout

`app/`

The app folder is used for routing. The main structure of each page is defined here.

`src/`

This is where extra code goes, such as server actions, components, types, and anything generated by packages.

`public/`

This is mainly being used for images.

`prisma/`

The Prisma package is complex, so it requires its own folder.

`docs/`

Notes and documentation go here.

## Packages

### Overview

This project relies on several Node packages to do some of the heavy lifting. Package management is done with pnpm.

### NextAuth.js

NextAuth.js handles authentication. This project uses its OAuth features to allow sign-ins from trusted platforms like GitHub and Google. Most of the work is done by the `app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts` file, through which authentication requests are routed.

### Prisma

Prisma is an interface for talking to the database. The database is defined by the `prisma/schema.prisma` file. Any changes require migrations to be applied to the database. Prisma automatically generates several files required for it to function, using the `npx prisma generate` command. These files must be generated after package updates and any changes to the schema. General Prisma settings are applied in the `prisma/prisma.ts` file.

### Sharp

Sharp is used to process uploaded images. They are cropped, compressed, and stripped of metadata before being uploaded. This process happens in the `src/actions/image/uploadMedia.ts` file.

## Database

### PostgreSQL

Currently, this project is using a locally run PostgreSQL database.